#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass scrbook
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style british
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If we are to understand the revelation the Apostle John records for us here,
 we need to keep two important things in mind.
 Firstly, its literature type, and secondly, its historical context.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
John is recording a vision.
 This vision takes place for the most part in heaven.
 It records events that take place in the spiritual, unseen realm; it describes
 spiritual forces that lie behind earthly events, and it describes these
 events, not from the earthly, but from a heavenly perspective.
 These events are not recorded in chronological order, and they are, in
 several cases, repeated and described differently.
 Symbolism is used to great effect.
 Numbers and people and places are described symbolically, illustrating
 the spiritual forces that lie behind the events, rather than the people
 and places, as we would understand them from an historical perspective.
 Jesus, for example, is described in chapter five as a Lamb with seven horns
 and seven eyes.
 If we are to take this literally, we would arrive at absurd conclusions.
 Symbolism here is used to illustrate something of spiritual significance.
 The time between Jesus' first and second coming is described in chapter
 twenty as a thousand years, again, not meant to be taken literally.
 Spiritual birth is called the first resurrection and eternal punishment,
 the second death.
 In chapter twelve we read about the woman who was about to give birth to
 a child, and a dragon that was waiting to devour it.
 The historical events are recorded for us in Matthew's gospel, chapter
 two, where we read how King Herod slaughtered the children of Bethlehem.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The historical context of the revelation is the first century, in which
 the church was facing severe persecution for refusing to take part in Emperor
 worship and pagan rituals.
 To refuse to take apart in the state religious system, was seen as treasonous,
 and punishable by banishment or death.
 The revelation is addressed to specific churches in Asia minor, whose existence
 was being threatened by false apostles and false prophets.
 Throughout the vision we are given clues as to the historical setting.
 For example, Rome is described as the city built on seven hills, and John
 tells us in chapter seventeen that he was writing during the reign of the
 sixth Emperor, which was either Nero or Galba, depending on where he started
 counting.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
No other book in the Bible so dramatically illustrates the plan God has
 for His creation, and no other book in the Bible has been so tragically
 misused.
 I pray that God will give you wisdom to understand His purpose, and to
 see, above all, that this is the revelation of Jesus the Messiah.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
