#LyX 2.4 created this file. For more info see https://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 620
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children no
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding auto
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_roman_osf false
\font_sans_osf false
\font_typewriter_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement class
\float_alignment class
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_formatted_ref 0
\use_minted 0
\use_lineno 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008080
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style british
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tablestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\change_bars false
\postpone_fragile_content true
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\docbook_table_output 0
\docbook_mathml_prefix 1
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
The revelation of Jesus Christ,
 which God gave to him,
 to make known to his servants the things which must soon take place,
 which he conveyed by sending his angel to his servant John,
 who testified that whatever he saw was the testimony of the Word of God and of Jesus Christ.
 Blessed is he who reads and who hears the words of this prophecy,
 and who keeps the things which are written in it,
 for the time is near.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
John,
 to the seven churches,
 which are in Asia:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Grace to you and peace from him who is,
 and who was,
 and who is about to come;
 and from the seven spirits who are before his throne,
 and from Jesus Christ,
 who is the faithful witness,
 the first born of the dead and the first of the kings of the earth.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To him who loved us and released us from our sins by his blood and made us a kingdom,
 priests to God his father,
 to whom be glory and supreme power forever and ever.
 Amen.
 Behold,
 he comes in the clouds,
 and every eye shall see him,
 also those who pierced him,
 and all the tribes of the earth shall lament greatly over him.
 So be it.
 Amen.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am the Alpha and the omega,
 says the Lord God,
 who is and who was and who is about to come,
 the omnipotent.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I,
 John,
 your brother and partaker in the tribulation and kingdom and patience of Jesus,
 was on the Island called Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.
 I was in the Spirit on the day of the Lord and I heard behind me a great voice like a trumpet saying:
 What you see,
 write in a book and send it to the seven churches:
 Ephesus,
 Smyrna,
 Pergamum,
 Thyatira,
 Sardis,
 Philadelphia and Laodicea.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me,
 and turning,
 I saw seven golden lamp-stands,
 and in the middle of the lamp-stands one like the son of man,
 clothed in a long garment and wrapped to the breast in a golden belt.
 His head and his hair were white,
 like white wool,
 as white as snow,
 and his eyes were like flames of fire,
 and his feet were like golden metal,
 just like a furnace burning,
 and his voice was like the sound of many waters.
 He had in his right hand seven stars,
 and out of his mouth came a sharp,
 double edged sword and his face was like the sun shining at its brightest.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And when I saw him,
 I fell at his feet as dead;
 and he placed his right hand upon me saying:
 ‘Do not be afraid.
 I am the first and the last,
 I am alive,
 though I was dead and behold,
 I live forever more and I have the keys to death and the infernal regions.
 Write,
 therefore,
 what you have seen and the things which are,
 and the things which have to take place after this.
 The mystery of the seven stars,
 which you saw in my right hand,
 and the seven lamp-stands of gold:
 the seven stars are the seven messengers of the seven churches and the seven lamp-stands are the seven churches.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To the messenger of the church of Ephesus write:
 ‘Thus says he who holds the seven stars in his right hand and who walks among the seven lamp-stands of gold.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I know your works,
 your hardships and your patience,
 and that you cannot stand evil men who call themselves apostles,
 but are not,
 and have tested them and found them to be liars;
 and that you have patience and have endured because of my name and have not given up.
 But I have this against you,
 that you have relinquished your first love.
 Remember from where you have fallen,
 change your attitude and do as you did in the beginning.
 But,
 if not,
 I will come to you and remove your lamp-stand from its place,
 unless you repent.
 But this you have,
 that you hate the deeds of the Nicolaitans,
 which I also hate.
 He who has ears,
 let him hear what the spirit says to the churches.
 To the one who overcomes,
 will I give to eat of the tree of life,
 which is in the garden of God.’ 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And to the messenger of the church which is in Smyrna,
 write:
 ‘ This is what the First and the Last,
 he who was dead but now lives,
 says:
 I know your distress and your poverty - but yet you are rich - and the reviling you suffer from those who say they are Jews,
 and are not,
 but are a synagogue of Satan.
 Fear nothing of the things that you are about to suffer.
 The Devil is about to throw some of you into prison,
 so that you will be tested and be in severe distress for ten days.
 Be faithful unto death,
 and I will give you the crown of life.
 He who has ears,
 let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
 He who overcomes will not be harmed by the second death.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And to the messenger of the church which is at Pergamum,
 write:
 ‘ This is what the one who has the sharp,
 double edged sword says:
 I know where you live,
 where Satan's throne is,
 yet you hold fast to my name and have not denied faith in me,
 even in the days of Antipas,
 my faithful witness,
 who was murdered among you,
 where Satan lives.
 But I have a few things against you,
 for you have there some holding to the teachings of Balaam,
 who taught Balak to entice the children of Israel to sin by eating things sacrificed to idols and by engaging in sexual immorality;
 likewise,
 you also have those holding to the teachings of the Nicolaitans.
 Make a radical change therefore,
 otherwise I will come to you before long and fight against them with the sword of my mouth.
 He who has ears,
 let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
 I will give to the one who overcomes some of the hidden manna and I will give him a white stone,
 on which is written a new name which no one knows except the one who receives it.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And to the messenger of the church in Thyatira,
 write:
 ‘The son of God,
 who has eyes of flaming fire and feet like glistening brass:
 I know your deeds,
 your compassion,
 your faith,
 your service and patience,
 and that your most recent deeds are more than your earlier ones.
 But I have this against you:
 that you permit that woman Jezebel,
 who calls herself a prophetess,
 to teach and seduce my servants to commit sexual sin and to eat food offered to idols.
 I gave her time to change her mind in contrition,
 but she refuses to give up her fornication.
 I am casting her into a sick bed,
 together with all those who commit adultery with her,
 and they will have great distress,
 unless they have a change of heart and cease what they are doing.
 Moreover,
 I will put her children to death so that the whole church will know that I am the one who searches the inner depths of the heart,
 and I will give to each one of you according to what you have done.
 To the rest of you in Thyatira,
 who do not hold to this teaching,
 who have not known the so-called depths of Satan,
 as they say,
 I will not lay upon you any other burden;
 except that you hold fast to what you have until I come.
 To him who overcomes,
 and keeps my works until the end,
 will I give authority over the nations and he will rule them with a rod of iron and they will be crushed like a clay vessel and I will give him the morning star,
 just as I received from my Father.
 He who has ears,
 let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And to the messenger of the church which is at Sardis,
 write:
 ‘ This is what the one who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars says:
 I know your deeds,
 and that you have a reputation of being alive,
 but you are dead.
 Wake up and strengthen that which is about to die,
 for I do not find your deeds complete before my God.
 Keep in mind what you have received and heard,
 observe these things and repent.
 For if you do not watch,
 I will come to you like a thief at an hour you do not know.
 But you do have a few names in Sardis who have not contaminated their clothes and those who are worthy will walk with me in white.
 The one who overcomes will be clothed in white garments.
 I will not delete his name from the book of life and I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.
 Let him who has an ear,
 hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And to the messenger of the church at Philadelphia,
 write:
 ‘The holy and true one,
 who has the keys of David and who can open and no one can close and who closes and no one can open,
 says:
 I know your works,
 and see,
 I place before you an open door which no one can close,
 for you have some strength and you have kept my word and have not denied my name.
 See,
 I will take some of the Synagogue of Satan - who say they are Jews,
 but are not,
 but are liars - and I will make them come and worship before your feet and they will know that I have loved you.
 For you have kept the word of my patience and I will save you from the time of testing which is about to come upon the entire world,
 to test the inhabitants of the earth.
 I am coming soon,
 hold fast to what you have so that no one is able to take your crown.
 I will make the one who overcomes a column in the temple of my God and he will never again depart from it - and I will write upon him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God,
 the new Jerusalem,
 which descends from heaven from my God,
 and my new name.
 Let him who has ears hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To the messenger of the church which is at Laodicea,
 write:
 ‘This is what the Amen,
 the faithful and true witness,
 the beginning of the creation of God,
 says:
 I know your works,
 that you are neither cold nor hot.
 I wish you were cold or hot,
 but because you are tepid and neither hot nor cold,
 I will begin to spew you out of my mouth.
 For you say:
 I am rich and have gained much and I am in need of nothing;
 yet you do not realise that you are miserable and wretched and poor and blind and naked.
 I urge you to buy from me gold tested by fire,
 so that you find true wealth,
 and to put on garments of white so that the shame of your nudity will not become apparent,
 and anoint your eyes with eye-salve that you may see.
 Those I love,
 I convict and correct.
 Be zealous therefore,
 and repent.
 See,
 I stand at the front door and knock.
 If anyone hears my voice and opens the door,
 I will enter in and dine with him and he with me.
 To the one who overcomes will I give the right to sit with me on my throne,
 just as I overcame and sat down with my Father on his throne.
 Let him who has ears,
 hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After these things,
 I looked,
 and there was a door open into heaven,
 and a voice,
 the same one I heard before,
 like a trumpet speaking to me,
 saying:
 ‘Come up here and I will show you the things which must take place after this.’ And at once I was in the Spirit,
 and I saw a throne in heaven,
 and one sitting on the throne;
 and the one who sat on the throne was similar in appearance to stone of jasper and sardius,
 and there was a rainbow around the throne,
 in appearance similar to green precious stone,
 like emerald.
 Round about the throne were twenty four other thrones,
 and sitting upon those thrones were twenty four elders,
 clothed in white garments,
 and upon their heads crowns of gold.
 And from the throne proceeded lightning,
 and rumblings,
 and thunder.
 There were seven torches burning with fire before the throne,
 which are the seven spirits of God.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Visible before the throne was a sea of glass,
 like crystal,
 and in the middle of the throne,
 and round about the throne,
 were four living creatures,
 full of eyes in the front and at the back.
 The first living creature was like a lion and the second like a calf.
 The third living creature had a face like a man and the fourth living creature was like an eagle in flight.
 Each of the four living creatures had six wings,
 covered all around and within with eyes.
 They had no rest,
 day and night,
 proclaiming:
 ‘ holy,
 holy,
 holy is the Lord God omnipotent,
 who was and is and is to come.’ And when these four living creatures gave glory and honour and thanks to the one sitting on the throne,
 who lives forever,
 the twenty four elders fell prostrate before the one sitting on the throne and worshipped the one who lives for ever and ever,
 and cast their crowns before the throne saying:
 ‘You are worthy,
 our Lord and our God to receive glory and honour and power,
 for you have created all things,
 and because of your good pleasure they exist and were created.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I saw,
 in the right hand of the one sitting on the throne,
 a scroll,
 written inside and out,
 and sealed with seven seals.
 Then I saw a powerful angel proclaiming with a great voice,
 ‘Who is worthy to open the scroll and to loosen its seals?’ And no one in heaven or on earth,
 or under the earth,
 was able to open the scroll or even to look at it.
 I wept bitterly,
 for nobody was found worthy to open the scroll or even to look at it,
 but one of the elders said to me:
 ‘Do not weep,
 for see,
 the Lion of the tribe of Judah,
 the root of David,
 overcame;
 and he is able to open the scroll and its seven seals.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I saw in the middle of the throne and the four living creatures,
 and in the middle of the elders,
 a Lamb,
 standing as if it had been killed,
 having seven crowns and seven eyes,
 which are the seven spirits of God,
 sent into all the earth.
 And he came,
 and took the scroll from the right hand of the one sitting on the throne,
 and once he had received the scroll,
 the four living creatures,
 and the twenty four elders fell down before the Lamb,
 each one having a stringed instrument and bowls of gold full of incense,
 which are the prayers of the saints.
 And they sang a new song,
 saying:
 ‘Worthy are you to receive the scroll,
 and to open its seals,
 for you were killed and have redeemed for God,
 through your blood,
 people from every tribe and language and people and nation and made them a kingdom and a priesthood for our God,
 and they shall reign over the earth.’ 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I looked,
 and heard the voices of many angels round about the throne,
 and the living creatures and the elders and their number was ten thousand times ten thousand,
 thousands upon thousands,
 all saying with a great voice:
 ‘Worthy is the Lamb who was slaughtered,
 to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honour and glory and blessing.’ And I heard every creature which was in heaven and on the earth and below the earth and upon the sea and all things in it,
 saying:
 ‘Blessing and honour and glory and power to the one sitting on the throne and to the Lamb,
 for ever and ever.
 And the four living creatures said:
 ‘Amen’;
 and the elders fell down and worshipped.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I watched,
 and when the Lamb had opened one of the seven seals,
 I heard one of the four living creatures saying with a voice like thunder:
 ‘Come.’ And I saw a white horse,
 and the one who sat upon it had a bow,
 and a crown was given to him,
 and he went out conquering and to conqueror.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And when he had opened the second seal,
 I heard the second living creature saying:
 ‘Come.’ And another horse went out,
 which was ruddy,
 and the one who sat upon it was given the ability to take peace from the earth,
 so that men killed each other;
 and a great sword was given to him.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And when he had opened the third seal,
 I heard the third living creature saying:
 ‘Come.’ And I saw a dark horse,
 and the one who sat upon it had a set of balances in his hand.
 And I heard something like a voice in the middle of the four living creatures,
 saying:
 ‘A double measure of wheat for a denarius,
 and three double measures of barley for a denarius,
 but do not harm the oil or the wine.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And when he had opened the fourth seal,
 I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying:
 ‘Come.’ And I saw a pale horse,
 and the one who sat upon it was called ‘Death’ and Hell followed him and he was given power over a quarter of the earth,
 to kill with the sword and famine and death and by the beasts of the earth.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And when he had opened the fifth seal,
 I saw,
 under the altar,
 the souls of those who had been killed for the word of God and because of their testimony.
 And they cried out with a loud voice,
 saying:
 ‘How long,
 Lord,
 holy and true,
 until you judge and avenge our blood upon those who live on the earth?’ And to each one was given a white garment,
 and they were told to rest for a little while longer,
 until the full number of their fellow servants and brothers,
 who were to be killed just like them,
 was complete.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I watched,
 and when the sixth seal was opened there was a great earthquake,
 and the sun became dark,
 just like a sack made of goats hair,
 and the entire moon became like blood.
 The stars of heaven fell to the earth just like a fig tree loses its immature figs when it is shaken by a great wind,
 while the sky receded just like a scroll that was rolled up,
 and all the mountains and islands were moved from their places.
 And all the kings of the earth and the great men,
 and the military leaders and the rich and the strong,
 and all slaves and all freedmen,
 hid themselves in caves and between the rocks of the mountains;
 and they said to the mountains and to the rocks:
 ‘Fall upon us,
 and hide us from the one who sits upon the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb;
 for the great day of their anger has come,
 and who is able to endure it.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After these things,
 I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth,
 holding the four winds of the earth,
 preventing them from blowing upon the earth,
 the sea,
 or upon any tree.
 And I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun,
 having the seal of the living God;
 and he shouted with a great voice to the four angels to whom was given the power to harm the earth and the sea,
 saying:
 ‘Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees until we seal the servants of our God on their foreheads.’ And I heard the number of those who were sealed,
 it was one hundred and forty four thousand,
 sealed out of all the tribes of the children of Israel.
 Twelve thousand were sealed out of the tribe of Judah,
 twelve thousand out of the tribe of Ruben,
 and twelve thousand out of the tribe of Gad.
 Out of the tribe of Asher,
 twelve thousand,
 and the same number from the tribes of Nephtali and Manasseh.
 Out of the tribes of Simeon,
 Levi and Issachar twelve thousand were sealed,
 and the same number from each of the tribes of Zabulon,
 Joseph and Benjamin.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After this,
 I saw a great multitude,
 which no one was able to number,
 out of all nations and tribes and peoples and languages,
 standing before the throne,
 in the presence of the Lamb,
 clothed in garments of white,
 with palm branches in their hands.
 And they shouted with a great voice,
 saying:
 ‘Salvation is from our God,
 who sits upon the throne,
 and from the Lamb.’ And all the angels stood around the throne,
 and the elders and the four living creatures fell on their faces before the throne and worshipped God,
 saying:
 ‘Amen,
 Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honour and power and strength to our God for ever and ever.
 Amen.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And one of the elders answered and said to me:
 ‘These,
 who are clothed in garments of white,
 who are they and from where have they come?’ And I said to him:
 ‘My lord,
 only you know.’ And he said to me:
 ‘These are the ones who have come out of the great time of trouble,
 and washed their garments and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.’ For that reason,
 they are before the throne of God,
 and they serve Him in his temple day and night,
 and the one who sits upon the throne lives among them.
 And they will not hunger or thirst ever again,
 neither will the sun beat upon them,
 nor any heat,
 for the Lamb,
 who is in the middle of the throne,
 will feed them and lead them to the springs of the water of life,
 and God will wipe away all tears from their eyes.’ 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And when he opened the seventh seal,
 there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
 And I saw seven angels,
 who stood in the presence of God,
 and seven trumpets were given to them.
 And another angel came and stood before the altar having a censor of gold,
 and much incense was given to him,
 so that he should offer it,
 together with the prayers of the saints,
 upon the altar of gold that is before the throne.
 And the smoke of the incense,
 with the prayers of the saints ascended from the hand of the angel before God.
 And the angel took the vessel in which incense is burned,
 and filled it with the fire from the altar and threw it down to the earth;
 and there was thunder and rumblings and lightning and earthquakes.
 And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound the trumpets.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The First trumpet sounded,
 and there was hail and fire mixed with blood,
 and it was thrown down to the earth;
 and a third part of the land was burned,
 and third part of the trees were burned and all the green grass was burned.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the second angel sounded his trumpet,
 and something like a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea:
 and a third part of the sea turned to blood,
 and a third part of the creatures living in the sea died,
 and a third of the ships were destroyed.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The third angel sounded his trumpet,
 and a great burning star fell from heaven,
 like a torch,
 and it fell upon a third of the rivers and upon the sources of water.
 And the name of the star was absinthe,
 and a third part of the waters became bitter like wormwood,
 and many people died from the waters which were made bitter.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The forth angel sounded his trumpet,
 and a third part of the sun and a third part of the moon and a third part of the stars were struck,
 so that a third part of them became obscure,
 and the day lost a third part of its light and so did the night.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I looked and I heard an eagle flying through the sky crying with a loud voice:
 ‘Woe,
 misery and suffering to the inhabitants of the earth because of the sound of the trumpets of the three remaining angels,
 which are about to sound.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The fifth angel blew his trumpet,
 and I saw a star that had fallen from heaven onto the earth,
 and the keys to the pit of the abyss were given to him.
 And he opened the pit of the abyss,
 and smoke ascended out of the pit,
 just like the smoke from a great furnace,
 and the sun and the air was darkened from the smoke from the pit.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And from the smoke exited locusts onto the earth,
 and they were given power,
 just like the power scorpions have upon the earth.
 And it was said to them that they should not harm the grass of the earth,
 neither any green vegetation,
 nor any tree,
 but only the people who did not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
 And they were given the ability not to kill them,
 but that they should be tormented for five months;
 and they tormented them with the torment of a scorpion when it strikes a person.
 And in those days men sought death,
 but did not find it;
 they desired to die,
 but death fled from them.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the appearance of the locusts was like that of a horse prepared for battle,
 and they had upon their heads crowns like gold,
 and their faces were just like the faces of men;
 and their hair was like the hair of women and their teeth like those of a lion.
 They had breastplates of iron and the sound of their wings was like the sound of many chariots,
 of horses rushing into battle.
 They had tails like scorpions tails with stings,
 and in their tails was the power to hurt men for five months.
 They had over them a king,
 the angel of the abyss,
 whose name in Hebrew is ‘Abaddon’ and in Greek,
 ‘Apollyon.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first misery is over,
 but two more miseries are yet to come after this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The sixth angel blew his trumpet,
 and I heard a voice coming from one of the horns of the golden altar,
 which is before God;
 saying to the sixth angel,
 who had the trumpet:
 ‘Release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates.’ And the four angels were released,
 who had been prepared for that hour and day and month and year,
 to put to death one third of mankind.
 And the number of the army of horsemen was twice ten thousand times ten thousand;
 for I heard their number.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I also saw horses in my vision,
 and those who sat upon them had breastplates of fire and hyacinth and sulphur,
 and their heads were like the heads of lions,
 and out of their mouths proceeded fire,
 smoke and sulphur.
 A third of all mankind was killed by these three plagues,
 from the fire and fumes and sulphur that proceeded out of their mouths,
 for the power of the horses was in their mouths and in their tails;
 for their tails were like serpents,
 having heads,
 and with these they caused harm.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But the rest of mankind,
 who were not killed by these plagues,
 did not repent from the works of their hands,
 nor did they stop worship daemons,
 and idols of gold and silver and brass and stone and wood,
 which are not able to see,
 neither hear nor walk;
 and they did not turn away from their homicides,
 or their sorcery and drugs,
 or from their fornication or theft.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I saw another powerful angel descending from heaven,
 enveloped in a cloud,
 with a rainbow above his head,
 and his face was like the sun,
 and his feet were like pillars of fire;
 and he had in his hand a small open book.
 He placed his right foot on the sea and his left foot upon the land;
 and cried out with a mighty voice,
 as when a lion roars.
 And when he had cried out,
 the seven thunders uttered their rumblings.
 And when the seven thunders had spoken,
 I was about to write,
 and I heard a voice from heaven saying:
 ‘Seal the things which the seven thunders have spoken,
 and do not write them.’ And the angel,
 who I saw standing upon the sea and upon the land,
 lifted up his right hand towards heaven,
 and swore an oath by the one who lives for ever and ever,
 who created the heavens and all that is in them,
 and the earth,
 and all that is in it,
 and the sea,
 and all that is in it,
 saying:
 ‘There shall be no more delay,
 but in the days of the voices of the seven angels,
 when they began to blow their trumpets,
 the mystery of God was completed,
 just like his servants the prophets had proclaimed.’ And the voice,
 which I heard from heaven,
 again spoke to me saying:
 ‘Go,
 take the open book from the hand of the angel standing upon the sea and the land.’ And I went to the angel,
 and said that he should give me the small book.
 And he said to me:
 ‘Take it,
 and eat it,
 and it will become bitter in your belly,
 but in your mouth it will be as sweet as honey.’ And I took the book,
 from the hand of the angel and ate it,
 and it was in my mouth as sweet as honey,
 but when I had eaten it,
 it became bitter in my stomach.
 And they said to me:
 ‘You must again prophecy over many peoples and nations and languages and kings.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A reed,
 similar to a rod,
 was given to me,
 saying:
 ‘Rise and measure the temple of God,
 and the altar and the worshippers in it.
 But the reception hall,
 which is outside the temple,
 leave out and do not measure it,
 for it is given to the nations,
 and the holy city shall be trodden underfoot for forty two months.
 And I shall present my two witnesses,
 and they shall prophecy one thousand,
 two hundred and sixty days,
 clothed in sackcloth.
 And these are the two olive trees,
 and the two lamp-stands standing in the presence of the Lord of the earth.
 And if anyone wants to harm them,
 fire shall come out of their mouths and devour their enemies;
 and if anyone wants to strike them,
 that is how he will die.
 These have the power to close the heavens,
 to prevent it from raining all the days of their prophesying;
 and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood,
 and to strike the earth with all sorts of plagues as many times as they like.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And when they will have finished their testimony,
 the beast,
 which ascended from the abyss,
 shall wage war against them,
 and overcome them and kill them.
 And their bodies will lie in the streets of the great city,
 which is called spiritual Sodom and Egypt,
 where their Lord was crucified;
 and all peoples and tribes,
 and languages and nations will see their bodies for three and a half days and their bodies will not be buried.
 And the inhabitants of the earth will rejoice because of them,
 and celebrate and give each other gifts,
 for these two prophets had tormented all who lived on the earth.
 And after three and a half days life from God entered into them and they stood upon their feet;
 and great fear fell upon all who saw them.
 And they heard a great voice from heaven saying to them:
 ‘Come up here.’ And they ascended into heaven in a cloud,
 and their enemies watched them.
 And in that hour there was a great earthquake,
 and a tenth part of the city fell,
 and the number of people killed in the earthquake was seven thousand,
 and the rest were so afraid that they gave glory to the God of heaven.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The second misery is now passed,
 but the third is coming soon.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The seventh angel sounded his trumpet,
 and there were great voices in heaven saying:
 ‘The kingdom of this world now belongs to our Lord and his Christ,
 and he will reign for ever and ever.
 And the twenty four elders,
 who sat before his throne,
 fell on their faces and worshipped God,
 saying:
 ‘We give you thanks,
 Lord God omnipotent,
 who is and who was,
 for you have taken your great power and have reigned.
 And the nations are in a rage,
 but your wrath has come,
 and it is time to judge the dead and to give rewards to your servants,
 the prophets and to the saints and to all who fear your name,
 small and great;
 and to exterminate those who destroy the earth.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the temple of God was opened in the heavens,
 and the ark of his covenant could be seen in his temple;
 and there was lightening,
 and voices and earthquakes and great hail.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And a great sign appeared in heaven:
 a woman,
 clothed in the sun,
 with the moon under her feet,
 and upon her head,
 a crown of twelve stars;
 and she was pregnant,
 and she cried out as she was giving birth and was in great pain as she gave birth.
 And there was seen another sign in heaven:
 a great red dragon;
 having seven heads and ten horns,
 and upon his heads,
 seven diadems;
 and with his tail he dragged a third part of the stars of heaven,
 and cast them down to the earth.
 And the dragon stood before the woman,
 which was about to give birth,
 waiting to devour her child as soon as she had given birth.
 And she gave birth to a male child,
 who would rule all the nations with a rod of iron;
 and her child was snatched up to God and to his throne.
 And the woman fled into the desert,
 where she had a place prepared by God,
 where they would feed her for one thousand,
 two hundred and sixty days.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And there was war in heaven.
 Michael and his angels fought against the dragon and his angels,
 but he did not prevail,
 and there was no longer any place for them in heaven.
 And that great dragon,
 that ancient serpent,
 who is called the Devil and Satan,
 who seduced the entire world,
 was cast down to the earth,
 and his angels were cast down with him.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I heard a great voice in heaven,
 saying:
 ‘Now the salvation,
 and the power,
 and the kingdom of our God,
 and the rule of his Messiah has come;
 for the accuser of our brothers,
 who accused them day and night,
 in the presence of our God,
 has been cast out.
 And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and because of the word of their testimony;
 for they did not love their lives,
 even unto death.
 For this reason,
 let the heavens and all those who live within them,
 rejoice.
 But woe to you,
 earth and sea,
 for the Devil has come down to you,
 having great anger,
 knowing that he only has a short time.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And after this,
 I saw the dragon that had been cast down to the earth,
 persecuting the woman,
 who had given birth to the male child.
 But the woman was given two great wings,
 like eagles wings,
 so that she could fly from the face of the serpent,
 to her place in the desert,
 where she would be nurtured for a time,
 times and half a time.
 But the serpent spewed water,
 like a river,
 out of his mouth,
 in order to drag her away by the stream.
 But the earth helped the woman,
 and the land opened up its mouth,
 and swallowed the water,
 which the dragon spewed from his mouth.
 And the dragon was angry with the woman,
 and departed to make war with the rest of her offspring,
 who kept the commandments of God,
 and had the testimony of Jesus.
 And he stood on the shore of the sea.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I saw a creature coming up out of the sea,
 having ten horns and seven heads;
 and upon its horns,
 seven diadems,
 and upon its heads,
 blasphemous names.
 The creature,
 which I saw,
 was similar to a leopard,
 and its feet were like those of a bear,
 and its mouth like a lion's.
 And the dragon gave its strength to it,
 and its throne and great power.
 And one of the heads looked as if it had been fatally wounded,
 but the deadly wound had been healed.
 And the entire world admired the creature,
 and worshipped the dragon who had given power to the creature,
 and they worshipped the creature,
 saying:
 ‘Who is like the creature,
 and who is able to wage war with it.’ And it was given a mouth speaking great blasphemies,
 and it was given power for forty two months.
 And it opened its mouth in blasphemies against God,
 to blaspheme his name,
 and his temple,
 and those who were in heaven.
 And it was given the ability to wage war with the saints,
 and to overcome them,
 and it was given power over every tribe,
 and people,
 and language,
 and nation.
 And all those who inhabited the earth,
 worshipped it,
 all those whose names were not written,
 from the foundation of the world,
 in the Lamb's book of life.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If anyone has an ear,
 let him hear.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If anyone must go into captivity,
 into captivity he will go,
 and if anyone must be killed by the sword,
 he will be killed by the sword.
 This is the patience and faith of the saints.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I saw another creature ascending from the land,
 and it had two horns like a lamb,
 but it spoke just like a dragon.
 And it had all the power of the first creature in its presence.
 And it made the earth and its inhabitants worship the first creature,
 whose fatal wound had been healed.
 And it performed great signs,
 and even made fire descend from the sky in the presence of men.
 And it seduced the inhabitants of the earth by means of these signs,
 which it was given to perform in the presence of the first creature,
 telling the inhabitants of the earth that they should make an image of the creature,
 who had been wounded by the sword,
 and lived.
 And it was given the ability to give breath to the image of the creature,
 so that the image of the creature could speak;
 and it happened,
 that whoever did not worship the image of the creature,
 was killed.
 And it compelled all,
 small and great,
 rich and poor,
 freedmen and slaves,
 to receive a mark on his right hand,
 or on his forehead,
 and no one was able to sell or buy,
 unless he had the mark,
 the name of the creature,
 or the number of its name.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is wisdom:
 he who has understanding should compute the number of the creature,
 for it is the number of a man,
 and its number is six hundred and sixty six.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I looked,
 and I saw the Lamb standing on Mount Zion,
 and with him one hundred and forty four thousand,
 all having his name and the name of his Father written on their foreheads.
 And I heard a voice from heaven,
 like the sound of many waters,
 like the sound of a great thunder;
 and the voice which I heard was like musicians playing on their stringed instruments.
 And they sang what seemed like a new song before the throne,
 and before the four living creatures and the elders.
 And no one could learn the song,
 except the hundred and forty four thousand who had been purchased from the earth.
 These are those who had not been contaminated by women,
 for they were virgins.
 These are the ones who follow the Lamb were ever he goes.
 These are the first fruits,
 redeemed from among men,
 for God and the Lamb,
 and in their mouths no lie was found:
 they were without spot or blemish.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I saw another angel flying through the sky,
 having the eternal gospel,
 and he preached this good news to all sitting upon the earth,
 and to every nation and tribe and language and people,
 saying,
 with a great voice:
 ‘Fear God,
 and give him glory,
 for the hour of his judgement has come;
 worship him,
 who made the heaven and the earth,
 and the sea and the sources of water.’ And another angel followed,
 saying:
 ‘Fallen,
 fallen is that great Babylon,
 for all nations have been given to drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.’ And another,
 third angel,
 followed them,
 saying with a loud voice:
 ‘If anyone worships the creature and his image,
 or receives the mark on his forehead or on his hand,
 he will drink the wine of the wrath of God,
 which is mixed with undiluted wine in the cup of his wrath,
 and they will be tormented with fire and sulphur in the presence of the holy angels and the Lamb.
 And the smoke of their torment will go up for ever and ever,
 and neither will they have rest,
 day or night,
 those who worship the creature and his image,
 or if anyone receives the mark of his name.
 This is the patience of the saints,
 who keep the commandments of God and faith in Jesus.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I heard a voice from heaven saying:
 ‘Write:
 blessed are the dead who die from this time forward.
 Yes,
 says the Spirit,
 so that they may rest from their hardships,
 for their works follow them.’ 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I looked,
 and I saw a white cloud,
 and upon the cloud was sitting one like the Son of Man,
 having upon his head a golden crown,
 and in his hand a sharp curved sickle.
 And another angel went out of the temple,
 shouting with a loud voice to the one sitting upon the cloud:
 ‘Send your sickle and harvest,
 for the hour has come to reap,
 for the harvest of the earth is ripe.’ And the one who sat upon the cloud sent his sickle upon the earth,
 and the earth was harvested.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And another angel exited the temple,
 which is in heaven,
 and he also had a sharp sickle.
 And another angel came from the altar,
 having power over the fire,
 and shouted with a loud voice to the one who had the sharp sickle,
 saying:
 ‘Send your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of grapes from the vineyard of the earth,
 for the grapes are ripe.
 And the angel cast his sharp sickle upon the earth,
 and gathered the grapes of the earth and cast them into the great wine press of the wrath of God.
 And the wine press was trodden outside the city,
 and the blood from the press went out from the press as high as a horses bridle,
 one thousand,
 six hundred stadia.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I saw a great and wondrous sign in heaven:
 seven angels having the seven last plagues,
 for with these,
 the wrath of God is complete.
 And I saw something like a sea of glass mixed with fire,
 and those who overcame the creature,
 and his image,
 and the number of his name,
 standing upon the sea of glass,
 having stringed instruments of God.
 And they sang the song of Moses,
 the servant of God,
 and the song of the Lamb,
 saying:
 ‘Great and wonderful are your works,
 Lord God omnipotent,
 just and true are your ways,
 King of the nations.
 Lord,
 who is there who will not fear and glorify your name;
 for you alone are holy,
 for all nations shall come and worship before you and your judgments are know.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And after this I looked,
 and the tent of testimony of the temple in heaven was opened.
 And seven angels,
 having seven plagues,
 went out from the temple,
 clothed in clean white linen,
 and girded around the chest with golden belts.
 And one of the four living creatures gave the seven angels seven bowls of gold,
 filled with the anger of God,
 who lives for ever and ever.
 And the temple was filled with the smoke of the glory of God and of his power,
 and no one could enter the temple,
 until the seven plagues of the seven angels were completed.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I heard a great voice from the temple,
 saying to the seven angles:
 ‘Go,
 and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God on the land.’ And the first one went and poured out his bowl on the land,
 and there appeared severe and grievous wounds on the men who had the mark of the creature,
 and those who worshipped his image.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the second one poured out his bowl on the sea,
 and it became like the blood of the dead,
 and every living creature,
 which was in the sea,
 died.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The third one poured out his bowl on the rivers and the sources of water,
 and they became blood.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I heard the angel of the waters saying:
 ‘You are righteous and holy,
 who is and who was,
 because you have judged these things;
 for they poured out the blood of the saints and the prophets,
 and you have given them blood to drink,
 which is what they deserve,’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I heard one saying form the altar:
 ‘Yes,
 lord God omnipotent,
 your judgments are true and righteous.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the forth one poured out his bowl on the sun;
 and he was given the ability to afflict men with heat and fire.
 And men were scorched with great heat,
 and they cursed the name of God,
 who had the power over these plagues,
 but they did not repent,
 or give him the glory.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The fifth,
 poured out his bowl on the throne of the creature,
 and its kingdom became darkness;
 and they gnawed at their tongues out of anguish,
 and they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pain and injuries,
 but they did no change their minds,
 and repent of their deeds.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the sixth poured out his bowl upon that great river,
 Euphrates,
 and its water dried up,
 in order to prepare a way for the kings who were from the rising of the sun.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And as I looked,
 I saw coming out of the mouth of the dragon,
 and the mouth of the creature,
 and from the mouth of the false prophet,
 three unclean spirits,
 like frogs;
 for these were the spirits of daemons,
 performing signs,
 and they went out to the kings of the entire earth,
 to gather them for the battle of the great day of almighty God.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
See,
 I come as a thief.
 Blessed is the one who is vigilant and preserves his attire,
 so that he will not walk naked,
 that his shame may be seen.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And he will gather them in a place,
 which is called in Hebrew,
 Armageddon.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the seventh poured out his bowl in the air,
 and a great voice was heard from the temple and from the throne,
 saying:
 ‘It is finished.’ And there was lightning,
 and rumblings and thunder,
 and a great earthquake,
 the magnitude of which had never been since man was upon the earth,
 so great was the earthquake.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the great city was divided into three parts,
 and the cities of the nations fell.
 And God remembered the great Babylon,
 in order to give it the cup of the wine of his indignation.
 And all islands fled and the mountains were found no more.
 And hail,
 as heavy as a talent,
 fell from the sky upon men,
 and they blasphemed the name of God because of the plague of hail,
 for it was exceedingly great.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And one of the seven angels,
 who had the seven bowls,
 came to me and said:
 ‘Come,
 and I will show you the damnation of the great prostitute,
 who sat upon many waters,
 with whom the kings of the earth engaged in whoredom,
 and those who lived in the land were intoxicated by the wine of her prostitution.
 And he took me in the spirit to a deserted place.
 And I saw a woman sitting upon a scarlet creature,
 full of blasphemous names,
 and having seven heads and ten horns.
 And placed around the woman was purple and scarlet,
 and she was decorated with precious stones and pearls,
 having a chalice of gold in her hand,
 full of the abominations and wantonness of her fornication;
 and on her forehead a mysterious name was written:
 ‘Babylon the great,
 mother of all the fornication and abominations of the land.’ And I saw the woman,
 drunk on the blood of the saints,
 and the blood of the martyrs of Jesus.
 And I was astonished,
 when I saw her,
 with great astonishment.
 And the angel said to me:
 ‘Why are you amazed?
 I will explain to you the mystery of the woman and the Creature which carries her,
 which has seven heads and ten horns:
 the Creature,
 which you saw,
 was and now is not,
 but is about to ascend from the abyss and will go to destruction.
 But the inhabitants of the earth,
 those whose names are not written in the book of life,
 form the foundation of the world,
 will be amazed when they see the Creature;
 which was,
 and now is not,
 but will come.
 And this is understanding for the one who has wisdom.
 The seven heads are seven mountains,
 upon which the woman sits,
 and they are seven kings;
 five have fallen,
 one is,
 and the other one has not yet come;
 and when he comes,
 he must only remain for a short time.
 And the Creature,
 which was and now is not,
 is the eighth;
 and he is one of the seven,
 but must go to an untimely death.
 And the ten horns,
 which you saw,
 are ten kings,
 who have not yet received their kingdoms,
 but they will receive the authority of kings with the Creature,
 for one hour.
 These will all have one purpose;
 and that is to hand over their power and authority to the Creature.
 They will fight with the Lamb,
 but the Lamb will overcome them,
 for he is the Lord of lords,
 and the King of kings.
 Those who are with him,
 are called and chosen and faithful.’ And he said to me:
 ‘The waters you saw,
 where the prostitute sits,
 are peoples and multitudes and nations and languages.
 And the ten horns which you saw,
 and the Creature;
 these shall hate the woman who fornicates and shall make her desolate and naked,
 and devour her flesh and shall consume her completely by fire.
 For God will place in their hearts,
 to do what is pleasing to him,
 and they shall act with one accord and give their kingdoms to the Creature,
 until the word of God is completed.
 And the woman,
 who you saw,
 is a great city,
 which has command over the kings of the earth.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After this I saw the other angel descending from heaven,
 having great power;
 and the earth was lit up by his brightness.
 And he shouted with a loud voice:
 ‘ Fallen,
 fallen is great Babylon;
 it has become the habitation of daemons and the prison of all unclean spirits,
 and a confinement for all unclean and hateful creatures;
 for all nations have drunk the wine of the wrath of her fornication,
 and the kings of the earth have committed immoral acts with her,
 and the merchants of the land have become wealthy by the excellence of her delights.
 And I heard another voice from heaven saying:
 ‘Depart from her,
 my people,
 so that you do not become partakers of her sins,
 and do not receive any of her plagues;
 for her sins have reached all the way to heaven and God has remembered her iniquities.
 Give her back,
 just as she gave,
 and repay her double according to her deeds.
 In the cup which she mixed,
 mix for her the double.
 As much as she glorified herself in her pleasures and delights,
 give her an equal amount of torment and grief.
 For she said in her heart:
 ‘I am a queen and not a widow,
 I will not see sorrow.’ For this reason,
 her afflictions shall come upon her in a single day;
 death and mourning and famine;
 and she shall be utterly consumed by fire,
 for the Lord God is mighty,
 and he has judged her.’ 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the kings of the earth wept and beat their chests because of her,
 seeing the smoke of the flames;
 all those who had committed immoral acts with her and lived in luxury.
 They stood afar off,
 because of the fear of her torments,
 saying:
 ‘Woe,
 woe,
 that great city Babylon,
 that mighty city,
 for in a single hour your judgement has come.’ And the business men of the earth wept and mourned over her,
 for no one buys her goods any longer:
 goods of gold and silver and precious stones and pearls,
 fine linen and purple dyed clothes,
 silk an scarlet,
 wood from the citrus tree,
 and ivory vessels and vessels made from wood of great value,
 bronze and copper and marble,
 cinnamon and cinnamon bark and aromatic spices,
 ointments and incense,
 wine and oil,
 fine flour and wheat,
 cattle,
 sheep and horses,
 four wheeled coaches,
 slaves and the souls of men.
 For your fruit,
 the desires of the soul,
 has departed from you,
 and all the richness and splendour have departed from you,
 and they will not be found any longer.
 These merchants,
 who had been made rich by her,
 stood far from her because of the fear of her torments,
 and wept and lamented,
 saying:
 ‘Woe,
 woe,
 that great city,
 which was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet,
 decorated with gold and precious stones and pearls,
 for in one hour such riches have been made desolate.’ And all helmsmen and all who sail,
 and sailors,
 and as many as whose work involves the sea,
 stood far away and cried aloud,
 seeing the smoke of her conflagration,
 saying:
 ‘What else is like this great city?’ And they threw dust on their heads,
 and shouted and wailed and grieved,
 saying:
 ‘Woe,
 woe,
 to that great city,
 in which all who had ships in the sea were made wealthy from her opulence;
 for in one hour she is made desolate.
 Rejoice over her,
 heaven,
 and saints and apostles and prophets,
 for God has judged her with your judgment.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And one mighty angel lifted up a stone,
 like a great millstone and threw it into the sea,
 saying:
 ‘With such force will that great city Babylon be cast down,
 and she will never be found again.
 And the sound of the stringed instruments and musicians and flutes and the sound of the trumpet will not be heard in you any longer,
 and all craftsmen and crafts will no longer be found in you and the sound of the millstone will not be heard in you any longer,
 and the light of lamps will no longer shine within you,
 and the voice of the groom and the bride will no longer be heard within you,
 for your merchants were the great men of the earth,
 for by your sorcery and potions all nations went astray,
 and in her was found the blood of the prophets and saints,
 and all those who were killed upon the earth.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After this I heard something like the voices of a great multitude in heaven,
 saying:
 ‘Hallelujah!
 Salvation and glory and power to our God,
 for his judgements are true and just,
 for he has judged concerning the great whore who corrupted the earth with her prostitution and avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.’ And again they said:
 ‘Hallelujah!
 and her smoke ascends for ever and ever!’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the twenty four elders fell,
 and the four living creatures,
 and they worshipped God sitting upon the throne,
 saying:
 ‘Amen.
 Hallelujah.’ And there was a voice from the throne,
 saying:
 ‘Give praise to our God all his servants and all those who fear him,
 small and great!’ 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I heard the sound of something like a great multitude,
 like the sound of gushing waters,
 like the sound of great thunders,
 saying:
 ‘Hallelujah,
 for the Lord God,
 almighty,
 reigns.
 Let us rejoice with great joy,
 and give him glory,
 for the marriage feast of the Lamb has come,
 and his bride has prepared herself.’ And it was granted to her that she might cover herself with the finest white linen,
 splendid and clean,
 for the fine linen is the righteousness of the saints.’ And he said to me,
 Write,
 blessed are those who are called to the wedding feast of the Lamb.’ And he said to me:
 ‘These words of God are true.’ And I fell before his feet to worship him.
 But he said to me:
 ‘See that you do not do that;
 for I am a fellow servant with you,
 and one of your brothers having the testimony of Jesus.
 Worship God.
 For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I looked,
 and I saw heaven open:
 and a white horse;
 and the one who sat upon it was called Faithful and True and he does battle and judges in righteousness.
 His eyes were like flames of fire,
 and on his head were many diadems,
 having a name inscribed which no one knows except he himself;
 and he was clothed in clothing sprinkled in blood,
 and his name was the Word of God.
 And the army,
 which was in heaven,
 followed him on white horses,
 clothed in fine linen,
 white and clean.
 And from his mouth proceeded a sharp sword and with it he strikes the nations,
 and he will rule them with a rod of iron;
 and he treads the winepress of the wine of the furore of God almighty.
 And he has on his clothing and upon his thigh the name written:
 King of Kings,
 Lord of lords.
 And I saw one of the angels standing in the sun,
 and he cried out with a loud voice,
 saying to all the birds,
 which were in the sky:
 ‘Come,
 gather yourselves for the great feast of God,
 so that you may eat the flesh of kings,
 and the flesh of military leaders,
 and the flesh of great men,
 and the flesh of horses,
 and those sitting upon them,
 and the flesh of all freedmen,
 and servants,
 both small and great.’ 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I saw the Creature,
 and the kings of the earth with their armies,
 gathering to make war with him who sat upon the horse and with his army.
 And the Creature was captured,
 and with him the false prophet,
 who in its presence performed signs,
 which deceived those who had received the mark of the Creature and those who worshipped its image;
 and these two were cast alive into the lake of fire,
 burning with sulphur.
 And the rest were killed by the sword that proceeded out of the mouth of the one sitting upon the horse,
 and all the birds were saturated on their flesh.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I saw the angel descending from heaven having in his hand the keys to the abyss and a great chain.
 He took hold of the dragon,
 that ancient serpent,
 who is the Devil and Satan,
 and he bound him for a thousand years;
 and cast him into the abyss and closed it and put a seal upon it,
 so that he could no longer deceive the nations,
 until the thousand years was over.
 After all these things,
 he must be released for a short time.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I saw thrones,
 and those who sat upon them,
 and judgement was given to them;
 and the souls of those who had been beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and because of the Word of God,
 and because they had not worshipped the Creature,
 nor its likeness;
 and because they had not received the mark on their foreheads or hands;
 they lived and ruled with Christ a thousand years.
 The rest of the dead did not live until the thousand years was completed.
 This is the first resurrection.
 Blessed and holy is the one who takes part in the first resurrection,
 over him the second death has no power,
 but they shall be priests of God and of Christ and reign with him a thousand years.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And when the thousand years will have been completed,
 Satan will be released from his dungeon and go out and seduce the nations which are in the four corners of the earth,
 Gog and Magog;
 and gather them,
 whose number is like the sand of the sea,
 for battle.
 And they will ascend from the breadth of the earth,
 and they will surround the camp of the saints,
 and the beloved city.
 And fire descends from heaven and consumes them;
 and the devil,
 who deceived them,
 was thrown into the lake of fire and sulphur,
 where the Creature and the false prophet will also be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I saw a great white throne,
 and one sitting upon it,
 from whose appearance the land and the sky fled,
 and no place was found for them.
 And I saw the dead,
 great and small,
 standing before the throne;
 and the books were opened.
 And another book was opened,
 which is the book of life;
 and the dead were judged by those things which were written in the books,
 and according to what they had done.
 And the sea gave up the dead that were in it,
 and death and the lower regions gave up the dead who were in them,
 and each one was judged according to what he had done.
 And death and hell were thrown into the lake of fire.
 This is the second death,
 the lake of fire.
 And if anyone was not found written in the book of life,
 he was thrown into the lake of fire.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth,
 for the first heaven and the first earth were no more,
 and there was no more sea.
 And I saw the holy city,
 the new Jerusalem,
 descending from heaven from God,
 prepared,
 just like a bride adorned for her bridegroom.
 And I heard a great voice coming from the throne,
 saying:
 ‘Behold,
 the tabernacle of God is with men,
 and he will live with them,
 and they will be his people,
 and God himself will be with them,
 and be their God;
 and he will wipe away all tears from their eyes,
 and death will be no longer,
 neither sorrow,
 or any cause of grief,
 nor any cry of fear or mourning,
 and pain and suffering will be no more,
 for the first things have passed away.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the one who sat upon the throne said:
 ‘Behold,
 I make all things new.’ And he said:
 ‘Write:
 these words are faithful and true.’ And he said to me:
 ‘All is done!
 I am the Alpha and the Omega,
 the beginning and the end.
 To those who thirst I will give freely of the springs of the water of life.
 The one who overcomes will inherit these things,
 and I will be his God,
 and he shall be my son.
 But to those who hold back through fear and unbelief;
 the abominable,
 murderers,
 fornicators,
 sorcerers and poisoners,
 and all liars,
 their part shall be in the lake of burning fire and sulphur,
 which is the second death.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And one of the seven angels,
 having the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues,
 came and spoke to me,
 saying:
 ‘Come,
 I will show you the bride,
 the wife of the Lamb.’ And he lifted me up in the spirit upon a great,
 high mountain,
 and showed me the holy city Jerusalem,
 descending from heaven,
 from God;
 having the splendour of God and the brilliance of most precious stones,
 like Jasper and crystal.
 And it had a great,
 high wall,
 with twelve gates,
 and at the gates,
 twelve angels,
 and on the gates names were inscribed,
 which are the names of the twelve tribes of Israel.
 On the east,
 three gates,
 and on the north three gates,
 and on the south three gates,
 and on the west three gates.
 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations,
 and upon these,
 the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
 And the one who spoke with me had a golden measuring reed in his hand,
 in order to measure the city and the gates and its wall.
 And the city was laid out in a square;
 its length was as long as its width.
 And the city was measured with the golden reed for twelve thousand stadia,
 and its length and height and breadth were equal.
 And its wall was measured,
 one hundred and forty four cubits,
 in the measurements of man,
 done by an angel.
 And the structure of the wall was out of jasper,
 but the city itself was pure gold,
 like clear glass.
 The foundation wall of the city was decorated entirely with precious stones:
 the first foundation was jasper,
 the second sapphire,
 the third chalcedony,
 the forth was emerald,
 the fifth sardonyx,
 the sixth was sardius,
 the seventh chrysolite,
 the eighth beryl,
 the ninth topaz,
 the tenth chrysoprase,
 the eleventh jacinth and the twelfth amethyst.
 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls,
 and each gate was a single pearl.
 The streets of the city were pure gold,
 like transparent glass.
 And I saw no temple in it,
 for the Lord God almighty and the Lamb are its temple.
 And the city did not need sun or moon to light it,
 for the glory of God illuminated it,
 and its lamp is the Lamb.
 And the nations shall walk by his light,
 and the kings of the earth bring their glory into it;
 and its gates shall not be closed during the day,
 and there shall be no night there;
 and they will bring the glory and riches of the nations into it.
 Nothing contaminated will enter into it,
 or anything causing abomination or falsehood,
 only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And he showed me the river of the water of life,
 splendid like crystal,
 proceeding from the throne of God and the Lamb.
 In the middle of the street,
 and on both sides of the river,
 was the tree of life,
 bearing twelve fruits,
 yielding its fruit each month;
 and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations,
 and there shall be no curse any more.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the throne of God and the Lamb will be in it,
 and his servants will serve him,
 and they will see his face,
 and his name will be on their foreheads.
 And there will be no more night,
 and they shall not need the light of lamps,
 neither the light of the sun,
 because the Lord God will illuminate them,
 and they will reign for ever and ever.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And he said to me:
 ‘These words are most faithful and true,
 and the Lord,
 the God of the spirits of the prophets,
 sent his angel to show his servants what must soon happen.
 And behold,
 I am coming quickly.
 Blesses is the one who keeps the words of the prophecies of this book.’
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And I,
 John,
 heard and saw these things.
 And after I had heard and seen,
 I fell on my face and worshipped before the feet of the angel who showed me all these things.
 And he said to me:
 ‘See,
 you should not do that.
 I am a fellow servant with you and your brothers the prophets,
 and all who keep the words of this book;
 Worship God!’ And he said to me:
 ‘Do no seal the words of the prophecy of this book,
 for the time is near.’ The one who harms,
 let him harm still;
 and the one who is filthy,
 let him be filthy still;
 and he who is righteous,
 let him be righteous still;
 and he who is consecrated,
 let him be consecrated still.
 Behold,
 I come soon,
 and my reward is with me,
 and I will repay to each one according to what he has done.
 I am the Alpha and the Omega,
 the first and the last,
 the beginning and the end.
 Blessed are those who wash their clothing,
 so that they may have the right to the tree of life,
 and to enter the city through the gates.
 But outside are the dogs,
 the sorcerers with their enchantments and potions,
 the sexually immoral,
 homosexuals,
 murderers,
 those serving idols,
 and all who love and do what is false.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I,
 Jesus,
 sent my angel to you to testify about these things to the churches.
 I am the root and descendant of David,
 the glittering morning star.’ And the Spirit and the bride say:
 ‘ Come!’ And the one who hears,
 let him say:
 ‘Come!’ And the one who thirsts,
 let him come,
 and receive the water of life freely and without payment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I testify together with all who hear the words of the prophecy of this book:
 If anyone adds to these things,
 God will add to him all the plagues written in this book;
 and if anyone takes away from the words of the prophecy of this book,
 God will take away his part of the tree of life and the holy city,
 and of those things which are written in this book.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
He who testifies of these things,
 says:
 ‘Yes,
 I am coming soon.’ Amen.
 Come Lord Jesus!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you all .
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
